# 7-Reasons-that-make-IISP-the-Best-IB-school-in-Pune
“Creating Leaders of Tomorrow” – the motto of Indus International School which has helped it to flourish and thrive as one of the best schools in Pune. The institution is always included in the top 10 schools of Pune; thus, it is unbelievable to imagine that this school was once composed of 135 students. Today, the Indus International School Pune stands tall as one of the most influential IB schools in Pune. Here Are 7 reasons that set it apart from its contemporaries and establish it as an exemplary institution.
1) A Clear Vision: Under the guidance of Lt .Colonel General Arjun Ray, the Pune International School has grown immensely – partly due to the clear and concise vision that Mr. Ray had. The very foundation of the school is built upon preparing students for life beyond education. To this extent, emphasis is given not only to academic excellence; but also practically applying what has been learnt in the class to real-world scenarios. Many international schools in Pune are still plagued with the idea of rote learning, which is completely disregarded by the institute. Here, students are offered a challenging course that tests what they have learned out of their classes, rather than ‘learning for learning’s sake.’
2) Individuality: The teachers observe each and every student with dedication and understanding. The faculty at the Pune International School realizes that each student’s capability to absorb information is different, and newer, more diverse learning styles have to be adopted so that each child gets adequate attention. Children with SEN (special education needs) are given separate resource rooms where they can build-up their confidence and self-esteem, which is very important for proper conduct of knowledge. This, in turn, helps the students to develop their own personality and strengths. No student is made to feel less as the Pune International School believes that “all children can learn.”
As such, qualities such as risk-taking, leadership, innovation and critical-thinking are nurtured in the child – preparing them for any uncertainty arriving in the future.
3) State-of-the-art facilities: The lush, green campus is adorned with trees on all sides. Libraries, activity rooms and smart classrooms ensure that the student observes the world around them with inquisitiveness and self-awareness. The international school in Pune also lays emphasis on the sports facilities that provide them an opportunity to relieve tension. Basketball, cricket, football, table tennis, swimming, and athletics provide an outlet for the students to exhibit their prowess and make a name for themselves on the playing field.
4) Boarding Benefits: Being one of the top 10 schools in Pune, IIPS understands the importance of creating a sense of independence and freedom in students from a very young age. Furthermore, each hostel accommodation is smartly segregated according to different grades and genders so the students can socialize. Each room houses 2-3 students.
Premium security services are provided for the well-being of the child. CCTV’s are installed in and around the vicinity of the premises. A fully-equipped doctor, and a team of nurses are available to attend to the students’ medical needs.
5) Exposure: The IB School in Pune emphasizes quality above all. The programs are divided into 4 sub-categories – IB Primary Years Program (Reception-Grade V), IB Middle Years Program (Grade VI-X), IB Diploma Program (Grade XI and XII) and the newly-introduced IB Career-related Program, designed to provide career-related studies in Hospitality Management.
 The Pune International School takes responsibility of their students. Moreover, having students from 33 countries aids the students in developing tolerance, empathy and respect for the people on a global scale. The curriculum is designed to give the students a glimpse into the education practices worldwide while at the same time adhering to the national sense.
6) Special events: Webinars, seminars, and workshops are organized where the students can voice their opinions without hesitation. The recently organized TOK (Theory of Knowledge) was a non-competitive, open event where students voiced out opinions and concerns which had always intrigued them. Additionally, picnics and weekly excursions allow the boarding students to relax on weekends.
7) Future prospects: Placements and scholarships are provided to distinguished students who score exceptionally well. The school provides counseling sessions by experts to guide students on the best universities for their future. The school alumni consists of students who have gone on to secure a position at Oxford, Cambridge and Yale. The school ensures that the students are not left confused after completing their education and pursue their passions wholeheartedly.
Among thehttps://pune.indusschool.com/ international schools in Pune, Indus continues to grow. Looking after every need of the student and providing them the path towards being an open-minded person in the 21st century. Join us on this exciting journey and watch your child become a leader of tomorrow’s world.
